This lesson we're gonna be adding in more of that listeners and these are gonna be the key press event
listeners.
So whenever the player kicks passes a key on their keyboard it's going to invoke these key press functions.
So setting up our document adding an event listener just as we would any other event listener and the
event listener that we're listening for is key down.
So anytime somebody presses on the keyboard and presses down on the keyboard when we're where they're
located the focus is located within the document which is everywhere the whole page then we are going
to be invoking our function we'll call it press on and then we're going to also do another one for press
off.
So we're gonna be able to detect once the player presses the key and then once they let go of the key
and using key up method in order to accomplish that or press on function and we need to listen for the
then to object.
So we're passing that in as a variable e and we can also prevent the default action by using the javascript
method prevent default.
And I'm going to console log out the value of event key and within this event object we're passing quite
a bit of information and we're gonna be making use of determining what Key was pressed when ever the
key was off.
And as well we're going to take the key that was last pressed and we're going to output that into key
off and I'm going to comma separate the soda so that we can distinguish between the two functions.
So let's try that out.
So refresh and now whenever I press the key I can see that I've got key on and key off and what we want
to do for this is we want to toggle a function that determines which way and which key is actually being
pressed so that we can take some type of action depending on what key is pressed.
And we also want to have the ability to press multiple keys at the same time and check to see what those
keys are and how they're being invoked.
So in case we have multiple keys or clear the suit and this time I'm going to press the up and the down
at the same time and you see when I lift off of one and then I lift off of the other.
We get that off function invoking and that's how we can detect whether the player is pressing one key
to keys and depending on how many keys they've got pressed we can take the action accordingly.
Set up an object to track which keys are being pressed and we're going to use the same values that we've
got for the key names that we're seeing here being indicated within the console.
So setting up an object and we're just going to check to see if the key is has a boolean value so whether
it's pressed on or off and then we're going to take a cat actions accordingly.
So using arrow up let's set that.
So by default we're going to set them all to be false and this way we can handle multiple key presses
at the same time.
There's also arrow.
Right.
So a default for that of course false and then the last one that we're gonna be tracking.
And if you can if you want to track additional key presses you can do that as well within this type
of format.
So you could track as many cues as you wanted to within this keys object lesson that we want to do is
instead of tracking that the keys have been up and down we're going to simply take that key value from
the event key and add within that key object setting the E key so corresponding to the string value
of each key that we saw output within the console or set that value to be false.
And we need to do the same thing for on click.
So we've set it to be true.
In this case you're going to see that now we're toggling between the boolean values and we know exactly
which cues are being pressed.
So while I'm pressing the up arrow I see that we've got up arrow true.
If I'm pressing left Ariel with the left arrow is true.
If I push another key so now I'm pushing the left and the right aerials so arrow right this true arrow
left is true and we've got full control so we can have as many keys pressed as needed within our application
and we can track all of the key presses.
So go ahead and add this into your application add in the ability to track what keys are being pressed
and also set up an object you can call it keys as well that tracks which keys are being pressed and
coming up next I'm going to show you how to introduce gameplay and we'll create an object that will
move around depending on what keys are pressed.